Welcome back.
We just learned our first notation Oh.
And or linear time and we see here that we have a few others remaining.
So let's talk about the next one.
Another very common Big-O notation that you're going to see what happens if we have a function like
this.
A function that says compressed first box that receives an array of boxes and this function simply has
console dialog boxes zero.
So that is it's logging out just the first item in the box.
What would you say the Big O of this function is how many steps or operations does this function take.
If the boxes increase from 0 to maybe 10 to maybe 100 to 100000 what would happen here.
Ready for the answer well this is what we call constant time.
It's an O of one that is no matter how many times the boxes increase year or however many boxes we have
we're always just grabbing the first item in the array.
If we look at this with an example if we had an array of Buxus year and we run it through the function
that just takes the first item in the array.
Well the number of operations is one no matter how big this the number of boxes are.
We're only doing one thing.
So it's a constant time.
If we look at this on a graph if we have one element or one box we do one operation.
If we have three again we still do just one because we're just grabbing the first item in the array.
If we have let's say five.
Same thing Seven same thing.
And what about nine again same number of operation.
And this is I don't know if you can see the line but this is just constant time.
It's not linear time like it was where it increases and increases with the number of operations the
number of operations just stays flat.
But I have a question here what if we do something different.
What if we do something like this.
What if we have a function that says function GRABBE bar log.
First
two boxes and this takes an array of boxes and is going to console or log the first item in the array
and it's going to console dialog.
Also the second item in the array.
How do we measure the big-O of this function.
Well let me just common this solve for a second because we don't need this right now and just create
an array called boxes and this boxes has to say 0 1 2 3 4 and 5.
So 5 items or 6 in this case because we include 0 and if we run this function log first two boxes and
we give it the boxes array and we click Run.
Here we have 0 and 1.
So we've logged this one and then this one what's the number of operations here.
Well we have all of one that is one operation here.
And then we have over here so of one again each time this function runs two operations.
So this function in total is actually running 0 of two operations every time.
So no matter how big the boxes get the number of operations here is going to be too if we look at this
on a graph instead of having all of one like we have before we have o of two and then if we had three
operations it will just be 0 or 3.
But overall it's still a flat line.
And this is something we're going to get into later on.
But when it comes to costs and time we don't care about the nitty gritty of one of two or three of even
a hundred.
We round this down to just simply saying oh of one that is.
We have constant time.
It's a flat line in terms of scalability.
It doesn't matter how big our inputs are we're always going to do the constant amount of time on a function
and if we look at this on a graph we see that of one over here is the dark green area.
It's excellent.
We love all one because it's very scalable right.
It doesn't matter how many elements we have.
It's always going to run the same predictability when it comes to computing is very very nice and all
of one is definitely excellent OK.
So we've learned about linear time all of and and then costs and time oh of one.
Let's do a bit of a fun exercise to really solidify our knowledge here.